And Noah was five hundred years old: and Noah begat Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

seven hundred seventy and seven years: and he died.
five years, and begat sons and daughters: And all the days of Lamech were
cursed.  And Lamech lived after he begat Noah five hundred ninety and
work and toil of our hands, because of the ground which the LORD hath
called his name Noah, saying, This same shall comfort us concerning our
And Lamech lived an hundred eighty and two years, and begat a son: And he

nine hundred sixty and nine years: and he died.
years, and begat sons and daughters: And all the days of Methuselah were
And Methuselah lived after he begat Lamech seven hundred eighty and two
And Methuselah lived an hundred eighty and seven years, and begat Lamech.

five years: And Enoch walked with God: and he was not; for God took him.
sons and daughters: And all the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty and
walked with God after he begat Methuselah three hundred years, and begat
And Enoch lived sixty and five years, and begat Methuselah: And Enoch

and he died.
daughters: And all the days of Jared were nine hundred sixty and two years:
Jared lived after he begat Enoch eight hundred years, and begat sons and
And Jared lived an hundred sixty and two years, and he begat Enoch: And

and five years: and he died.
and daughters: And all the days of Mahalaleel were eight hundred ninety
lived after he begat Jared eight hundred and thirty years, and begat sons
And Mahalaleel lived sixty and five years, and begat Jared: And Mahalaleel

he died.
daughters: And all the days of Cainan were nine hundred and ten years: and
he begat Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years, and begat sons and
And Cainan lived seventy years and begat Mahalaleel: And Cainan lived after

And all the days of Enos were nine hundred and five years: and he died.
begat Cainan eight hundred and fifteen years, and begat sons and daughters:
And Enos lived ninety years, and begat Cainan: And Enos lived after he

and he died.
daughters: And all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years:
after he begat Enos eight hundred and seven years, and begat sons and
And Seth lived an hundred and five years, and begat Enos: And Seth lived

hundred and thirty years: and he died.
begat sons and daughters: And all the days that Adam lived were nine
days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred years: and he
likeness, and after his image; and called his name Seth: And the
And Adam lived an hundred and thirty years, and begat a son in his own

created.
and blessed them, and called their name Adam, in the day when they were
man, in the likeness of God made he him; Male and female created he them;
This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God created

his name Enos: then began men to call upon the name of the LORD.
Cain slew.  And to Seth, to him also there was born a son; and he called
For God, said she, hath appointed me another seed instead of Abel, whom
And Adam knew his wife again; and she bare a son, and called his name Seth:

be avenged sevenfold, truly Lamech seventy and sevenfold.
have slain a man to my wounding, and a young man to my hurt.  If Cain shall
Zillah, Hear my voice; ye wives of Lamech, hearken unto my speech: for I
sister of Tubalcain was Naamah.  And Lamech said unto his wives, Adah and
Tubalcain, an instructer of every artificer in brass and iron: and the
father of all such as handle the harp and organ.  And Zillah, she also bare
of such as have cattle.  And his brother's name was Jubal: he was the
And Adah bare Jabal: he was the father of such as dwell in tents, and

the name of the one was Adah, and the name of the other Zillah.
Methusael: and Methusael begat Lamech.  And Lamech took unto him two wives:
And unto Enoch was born Irad: and Irad begat Mehujael: and Mehujael begat
a city, and called the name of the city, after the name of his son, Enoch.
And Cain knew his wife; and she conceived, and bare Enoch: and he builded

the LORD, and dwelt in the land of Nod, on the east of Eden.
any finding him should kill him.  And Cain went out from the presence of
shall be taken on him sevenfold.  And the LORD set a mark upon Cain, lest
And the LORD said unto him, Therefore whosoever slayeth Cain, vengeance

slay me.
the earth; and it shall come to pass, that every one that findeth me shall
from thy face shall I be hid; and I shall be a fugitive and a vagabond in
Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the earth; and
And Cain said unto the LORD, My punishment is greater than I can bear.

thou be in the earth.
henceforth yield unto thee her strength; a fugitive and a vagabond shalt
brother's blood from thy hand; When thou tillest the ground, it shall not
thou cursed from the earth, which hath opened her mouth to receive thy
voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto me from the ground.  And now art
know not: Am I my brother's keeper?  And he said, What hast thou done? the
And the LORD said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother?  And he said, I

in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and slew him.
And Cain talked with Abel his brother: and it came to pass, when they were

rule over him.
sin lieth at the door. And unto thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt
If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? and if thou doest not well,
said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? and why is thy countenance fallen?
respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell.  And the LORD
unto Abel and to his offering: But unto Cain and to his offering he had not
firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof.  And the LORD had respect
the ground an offering unto the LORD.  And Abel, he also brought of the
And in process of time it came to pass, that Cain brought of the fruit of

Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground.
have gotten a man from the LORD.  And she again bare his brother Abel.  And
And Adam knew Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bare Cain, and said, I

keep the way of the tree of life.
garden of Eden Cherubims, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to
he was taken.  So he drove out the man; and he placed at the east of the
God sent him forth from the garden of Eden, to till the ground from whence
also of the tree of life, and eat, and live for ever: Therefore the LORD
us, to know good and evil: and now, lest he put forth his hand, and take
clothed them.  And the LORD God said, Behold, the man is become as one of
Unto Adam also and to his wife did the LORD God make coats of skins, and

living.
And Adam called his wife's name Eve; because she was the mother of all

taken: for dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return.
thou eat bread, till thou return unto the ground; for out of it wast thou
and thou shalt eat the herb of the field; In the sweat of thy face shalt
days of thy life; Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee;
cursed is the ground for thy sake; in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the
the tree, of which I commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of it:
Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of
be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee.  And unto Adam he said,
conception; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children; and thy desire shall
Unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy

seed; it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel.
I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her
belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the days of thy life: And
art cursed above all cattle, and above every beast of the field; upon thy
And the LORD God said unto the serpent, Because thou hast done this, thou

done?  And the woman said, The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat.
did eat.  And the LORD God said unto the woman, What is this that thou hast
The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I
whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat?  And the man said,
he said, Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree,
the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked; and I hid myself.  And
Adam, and said unto him, Where art thou?  And he said, I heard thy voice in
LORD God amongst the trees of the garden.  And the LORD God called unto
of the day: and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the
And they heard the voice of the LORD God walking in the garden in the cool

and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves aprons.
And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they were naked;
did eat, and gave also unto her husband with her; and he did eat.
tree to be desired to make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof, and
the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a
ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil.  And when the woman saw that
know that in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, and
And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die: For God doth

of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die.
tree which is in the midst of the garden, God hath said, Ye shall not eat
may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden: But of the fruit of the
eat of every tree of the garden?  And the woman said unto the serpent, We
God had made.  And he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not
Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast of the field which the LORD

man and his wife, and were not ashamed.
unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh.  And they were both naked, the
Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave
of my flesh: she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man.
her unto the man.  And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh
rib, which the LORD God had taken from man, made he a woman, and brought
he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead thereof;  And the
And the LORD God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept: and

for Adam there was not found an help meet for him.
cattle, and to the fowl of the air, and to every beast of the field; but
living creature, that was the name thereof.  And Adam gave names to all
Adam to see what he would call them: and whatsoever Adam called every
every beast of the field, and every fowl of the air; and brought them unto
make him an help meet for him.  And out of the ground the LORD God formed
And the LORD God said, It is not good that the man should be alone; I will

thereof thou shalt surely die.
of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou eatest
tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat: But of the tree of the knowledge
it and to keep it.  And the LORD God commanded the man, saying, Of every
And the LORD God took the man, and put him into the garden of Eden to dress

is Euphrates.
that is it which goeth toward the east of Assyria.  And the fourth river
the whole land of Ethiopia.  And the name of the third river is Hiddekel:
And the name of the second river is Gihon: the same is it that compasseth
And the gold of that land is good: there is bdellium and the onyx stone.
is it which compasseth the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold;
parted, and became into four heads.  The name of the first is Pison: that
And a river went out of Eden to water the garden; and from thence it was

and evil.
life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good
every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of
man whom he had formed.  And out of the ground made the LORD God to grow
And the LORD God planted a garden eastward in Eden; and there he put the

his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul.
And the LORD God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into

a mist from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground.
the earth, and there was not a man to till the ground.  But there went up
the field before it grew: for the LORD God had not caused it to rain upon
And every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of
created, in the day that the LORD God made the earth and the heavens,
These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were

all his work which God created and made.
the seventh day, and sanctified it: because that in it he had rested from
on the seventh day from all his work which he had made.  And God blessed
And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made; and he rested
Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them.

And the evening and the morning were the sixth day.
And God saw every thing that he had made, and, behold, it was very good.

given every green herb for meat: and it was so.
to every thing that creepeth upon the earth, wherein there is life, I have
meat.  And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and
the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for
bearing seed, which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in
moveth upon the earth.  And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb
the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that
and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of
And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply,

image of God created he him; male and female created he them.
that creepeth upon the earth.  So God created man in his own image, in the
and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing
them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air,
And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let

kind: and God saw that it was good.
after their kind, and every thing that creepeth upon the earth after his
was so.  And God made the beast of the earth after his kind, and cattle
cattle, and creeping thing, and beast of the earth after his kind: and it
And God said, Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind,

evening and the morning were the fifth day.
the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth.  And the
good.  And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill
their kind, and every winged fowl after his kind: and God saw that it was
creature that moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after
firmament of heaven.  And God created great whales, and every living
that hath life, and fowl that may fly above the earth in the open
And God said, Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creature

good.  And the evening and the morning were the fourth day.
night, and to divide the light from the darkness: and God saw that it was
heaven to give light upon the earth, And to rule over the day and over the
night: he made the stars also.  And God set them in the firmament of the
lights; the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the
heaven to give light upon the earth: and it was so.  And God made two great
for days, and years: And let them be for lights in the firmament of the
the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and
And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to divide

that it was good.  And the evening and the morning were the third day.
tree yielding fruit, whose seed was in itself, after his kind: and God saw
earth brought forth grass, and herb yielding seed after his kind, and the
his kind, whose seed is in itself, upon the earth: and it was so.  And the
grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after
and God saw that it was good.  And God said, Let the earth bring forth
dry land Earth; and the gathering together of the waters called he Seas:
one place, and let the dry land appear: and it was so.  And God called the
And God said, Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto

Heaven.  And the evening and the morning were the second day.
were above the firmament: and it was so.  And God called the firmament
divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which
it divide the waters from the waters.  And God made the firmament, and
And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let

morning were the first day.
light Day, and the darkness he called Night.  And the evening and the
good: and God divided the light from the darkness.  And God called the
there be light: and there was light.  And God saw the light, that it was
the spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters.  And God said, Let
without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep.  And
In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.  And the earth was
